You need to think
outside the box.
You told me you killed 33 boys.
It shouldn't be your first case.
Not my first case?
You're not gonna
get a fair trial here.
We could motion
to hold the jury selection
somewhere else.
I'm looking for Jeffrey Rignall.
-What do you want?
-Last year.
you filed a police report
for assault.
You named Gacy as the assailant.
In light of your psych evals.
we're advising you
plead not guilty
by reason of insanity.
How about we plead innocent
by reason of self-defense?
He said if I gave him
what he wanted.
he would give me more money.
So you're not a victim?
You're a whore.
Bessie: Love you.
And it's welded.
Ain't going nowhere.
Where were you
at ID-ing the victims?
Billy: There's a good guy
out there for you.
He's a guy that
you can be really proud of.
So shut the hell up and be him.
Get a real job.
-Never turn a trick alone.
-Why?
Ivy: 'Cause that's how
you go missing. forever.
[singing] Happy birthday.
All right.
I'll be in the car. Go.
Yes! Thank you.
[laughs]
You really scared me there.
Mr. Gacy.
Just one more trick
for the road.
Reporter: [indistinct] the
discovery of Rob Piest's body?
Sam: We're thankful
that Rob Piest's body
has been recovered...
but my client is still
entitled to due process
afforded by the Constitution.
We're not reverting to. uh.
mob rule and lynchings
as much as the prosecution
has pushed for that.
[chattering indistinctly]
Bill: Listen.
this is all I'm gonna say.
In light of the newly
discovered bodies.
we will be amending the charges.
uh. bringing it to
a total of 33 murders.
[elevator bell rings] Excuse me.
[reporters overlapping
chattering]
Gacy was. uh.
suffering from chest pains
and had a heart attack.
Reporter:
And these are real symptoms?
I assure you.
he... he's not faking it.
He has a long history
of cardiac issues.
He's been in and out
of the hospital.
requires real medical attention.
The insanity defense
is nothing short
of a Sam Amirante Hail Mary.
I have nothing more to say
on the matter.
It is stupid.
-It's true.
Gacy had been fasting
for 20 days.
consuming nothing but liquids.
Uh. it was not
a hunger strike per se.
But. uh.
Gacy is a very religious man.
And. uh.
Easter's around the corner.
So. you know
who else fasted. Jesus.
We are very pleased that
Judge Garippo has denied
the defense's request
for a change of venue.
However. agreeing to impanel
a jury from a different county
is going to delay the trial
another three weeks.
Um. if you ask me.
this is Mr. Amirante's plan
all along.
A potential juror
yelled out in court.
saying my client is guilty.
I had no choice
but to file for a mistrial.
Now the judge
rejected the motion.
but the law is clear.
the jury pool is poisoned.
And these are Rockford jurists.
Imagine if they had been
impaneled in Chicago.
-Are you suggesting that...
-I mean. look.
Maybe Bill Kunkle can
finally stop whining about
being cooped up in Rockford
for the selection process.
I highly doubt it
knowing that man. but...
Bill: I can understand
why the Clowning Association
would hold a press conference
to defend their profession.
But no. we will not be calling
any clowns to the witness stand.
It's been a long 14 months.
but I'm prepared to wage
a street-fighter style battle
in court for John Wayne Gacy's
God-given rights
as an American citizen.
Bob Motta and I are tough.
aggressive lawyers.
gladiators in a three-piece.
We do not hold back.
Thank you. everybody.
and I'll see you in court.
[camera shutter clicks]
[indistinct chattering]
Bill: Oh. come on.
Jesus Christ. [sighs]
Sam: [indistinct]
Well. this is awkward.
Only when you say it is.
Bob.
Moo. [chuckles]
Just too hungry to send it back.
Uh. ready for next week?
We ever really ready. Bob?
Just gotta feet first it.
Goddamn right.
I'm gonna grab our table.
Can I order you something?
Yeah. Whatever. uh.
you think I'll like.
Thank you.
-"Whatever you think I'll like?"
Jesus Christ.
You guys make a cute couple.
[clears throat]
Been thinking about last year.
That day. that first day
in court. me and you?
What you told me? To walk away.
Hmm.
Regrets?
I don't know.
I just really thought
I could... handle it.
And. uh. fuck.
[sighs] I mean.
who could've predicted
this circus?
You mean other than everybody?
I'll predict another thing
where my big ass is gonna
end up after I win.
Up on that big-ass bench.
Fifth time's the charm. huh?
Uh-hmm.
Right after
that sick fuck of yours
takes his place in hell.
Is that why you're doing this?
To become a judge?
I'm doing this
because he deserves it.
Everything else is just gravy.
I like gravy.
[sighs]
I just wanted my own practice.
You know hell attracting
new clients is gonna be tough
now that you got
that scarlet letter on you.
When I joined the Marines.
I got picked on.
Uh-hmm.
My size made me an easy target.
Italian Meatball they would
call me. among other things.
Got my ass kicked daily.
yelled at.
just trying to fucking break me.
you know.
But I didn't quit.
-Hmm.
Became the 17th Marine
ever to score a perfect 500
on my physical.
It's in my DNA.
stick with it
till the bitter end.
That's a great story. Sam.
but it's a piss-poor excuse
to let a psychopath walk.
You know. you need
all 12 for a conviction.
I only need one for a hung jury.
Well...
ding. ding.
It's... insanity
doesn't sound pre-meditated.
What part of
what I just told you
doesn't sound pre-meditated?
That's not the issue. Jeff.
You published a book.
in which you state
that Gacy was insane.
out of his mind.
-He is.
We told you to wait until
after the trial to release it.
I knew it. I knew...
When that cop
came to my door last year.
I knew it shouldn't have helped.
You came to me.
Just wait?
I mean. it's.
it's all you people.
you cops. all you ever say.
I'm so tired of waiting.
I wanted my story out.
We have to paint
a clear picture. All right.
The core principle
of our argument
is that Gacy wasn't insane.
that he was clear minded.
pre-meditated.
Yeah. he's all of those things.
It confuses the jury. Jeff.
If you get on the stand
and testify.
the defense is going to
impeach your testimony
with the help of your
own damn book.
You made their argument
for them.
Bill: You know
what else juries hate?
The idea of a witness
profiting from a case.
And as our key witness.
no. none of this is any good.
We can't use you.
It's a sad thing
what happened to you.
A shit situation.
But we only get one shot at this
and we gotta get it right.
-It's my story.
-Uh-huh.
I did what I thought was right.
I'm the victim here.
You have to work
on your bedside manner.
Life's too short.
We need another compelling
witness who knows Gacy.
counter the narrative.
-I understand.
Otherwise. Sam will be doing
his best Brunnhilde.
singing the same insanity note
over and over.
[sighs] All right here.
Divide and conquer.
You take the victims.
I'll take the families.
Spread them out.
I need to see the whole mosaic.
[dramatic music playing]
All right. Obviously.
we're gonna have
the families testify.
All right. They will
emotionally activate the jury.
Save the experts for counter.
I don't know about that.
No. no. I need them to blunt
whatever Sam's
crackpot expert has to say.
We still...
We need a key witness.
[distant siren wailing]
Terry: It has to be Cram.
No. I don't trust him.
Yeah. he worked with Gacy.
lived together. still alive.
[overlapping
indistinct chattering]
Man 1: [indistinct] Come on.
come on. Come here. Yeah.
Man 2: Here we go. guys.
-Right there. See?
Yeah. I see it.
[siren wailing]
[indistinct chattering]
[chattering continues]
[doors close.
vehicle engines starting]
[vehicles departing]
John: Don't you
find this kind of ironical?
You knock on my door
one day out of the blue.
and poof. our lives
are changed overnight.
Now. here we are.
two peas in a Ford.
[flicks lighter open]
And it's because of you that
I don't got a house anymore.
[closes]
That's one way to look at it.
No other way. That's the facts.
You had nothing to do with it.
You're a confusing man.
Can't tell if you're
as crazy as they say.
I'm not crazy.
Bet you wish you never walked
to that pharmacy. huh?
Wished you stayed uptown.
Bughouse Square.
Killing kids nobody cared about.
You know.
I think about guys like you.
I mean. I never met
anybody like you. but...
People say I talk a lot.
Guys I bust. maybe five.
twenty. life. whatever.
I don't know. you know.
I'm just going about my day.
At the grocery.
filling up the tank with gas.
I don't know.
walking down the street.
nothing but guys like you
and your little cage
staring out your
tiny little window.
Wondering if you're thinkin'
about guys like me.
goin' about my day.
wanting to be us.
It strikes me.
I've never heard
of a detective-driver.
Feels kind of like
a reverse promotion.
you drivin' me around.
I requested it.
Really?
What. I. I entertain you?
Got a question I need to ask.
Well. fire away.
How many did you kill?
Huh?
How many bodies
are still out there?
What're you talkin' about?
In the crawlspace.
you said there's 27.
We found 29.
Four in the river.
that makes thirty-three.
But there were five
that you said you dumped.
Just numbers ain't addin' up.
Is it really 33 bodies?
I didn't kill any of those boys.
[eerie music playing]
Wanna hear a joke?
Do I have a choice?
So. there's these two mice
and they're in their
Sunday finest. right?
They got nice pants. uh.
short-sleeve
button shirts. ties.
and they got these Bibles
tucked under their arms.
And they're walkin'
around this neighborhood
and they stop at this one house
and they knock on the door.
And the owner. he opens up.
And one of these mice. he says.
"Sir. can we talk to you
about Cheesuz?"
[eerie music continues]
[laughs]
Come on. Cheesuz.
That's a good one. ain't it?
It's always handy to have a joke
in your back pocket.
-[machine whirring]
-[man grunts]
[metal clanking]
Still not done?
It's a lot of tires.
Stacking is very easy.
Easy. ripe. and luscious.
That another
Butch Cassidy quote?
And when you're done. latrine.
Oh. I was on toilet duty
all last week.
Man. it's a new week.
Don't live in the past.
Hey. uh. Mr. Patil?
Um...
I. I was just. uh. wondering
if I could get a raise?
A raise?
My grams' gonna
start charging me rent.
It's 30 a week.
Two bucks an hour
ain't gonna cut it.
You know. if I put
a hiring sign in that window.
by lunchtime.
I'll have a hundred people
lined up looking for work.
same rate. maybe less.
You see?
In this economy.
you should be happy
you even have a job.
[vehicle drives past]
[train click-clacking
above the bridge]
[car horn honks]
[dramatic music playing]
[phone ringing in distance]
[hinges creaking]
Bill: Take your time.
Ms. Stapleton.
Sam. Just seeing
Sam's bracelet. it... I just...
Water?
[whimpering] Thanks.
[sighs]
Watching those
other moms testify.
I was sure I could handle it.
But I can't go back in there.
I'm sorry.
You don't need to be sorry.
His bracelet.
it was such an ugly thing.
Now...
[breathes heavily]
can I get it back?
We'll figure that out
after the trial. all right?
Samuel didn't deserve this.
Neither did you.
And the jury needs to hear that.
How this changed everything
for you. for your family.
I can't make you do anything
that you don't wanna do.
But I know that
you've heard the things
that the press is saying
about the boys.
Horrible things.
I don't watch the news no more.
It's part
of the defense's strategy.
saying that the boys
had it coming
for one reason or another.
Looking for a bigot to hang
the jury and it's not right.
Your boy had dreams.
a mother who loved him.
And Bessie. you have the power
to tell that story.
That's a lot to ask. I know.
But I have heard things
about you.
Getting those two cops suspended
for messing with your boy.
Beating.
Yes. Of course.
Holding landlords accountable.
Knocking down
every single door that you could
looking for your Samuel
when he was taken from you.
And I need that strength now.
I hate to be the one
to ask you for it.
But I need you to get
back up on that stand
and show the jury the love
that you have for your Samuel.
[somber music playing]
[knocking]
[sighs]
Was hoping I could talk to you
and Harold about something.
He isn't home.
Offer you a drink?
It's not ideal
what I have to say.
What else did you find?
What else did
Chicago PD mess up?
Oh. they tailed Gacy
a few years back.
missing kid. nine years old.
They said there was nothing
they could stick him with.
but yet. here he was.
again. on their radar.
And you had asked me
before all this started.
do. do the police treat
every investigation the same?
I would've said yes.
I'd fight anybody
who said different.
But today. I'm realizing
that I have blind spots.
The system. the. um...
[clears throat]
The investigations.
nobody's talking to nobody.
We have cases being worked
and then others
just being overlooked.
And so. yes.
there's a better way.
There's a. uh.
a better way of cooperation.
of communication.
but there's walls.
A lot of them.
And I'm trying.
I'm trying to break
through them.
But I can't.
You're here for a reason?
Sometimes the best way to get
what we want is to make noise.
And you got to make a lot of it.
But people like me
tend to be transferred
or whatever for making noise.
So I'm supposed to do it?
I think so.
There are plenty of people
making noise.
You said it yourself.
And nobody did anything.
You paid attention to us.
That was Rob. Rob made it easy.
[sighs]
They were just boys.
All of them.
Why do even the most
straight forward things
have to be a fight?
[sighs]
I'm tired.
[indistinct chattering]
Complaining to Garippo about
not enough witnesses
being called on your behalf?
-Whoa. hey. hey. that's private.
How did you get that?
You can't communicate
with the judge behind my back.
Don't you know
how this works. John?
Yeah. Actually. I do.
I studied law.
No. you didn't. so just stop.
Okay?
Look. I am bending
over backwards
trying to help you out here.
Don't you see that?
What... Talk to me.
What. what do you think...
What do you think
is going on here?
All these victims' families
saying bad things about me.
it's all lies.
I don't know any-a-one of them.
And I'm just sitting there
like a dead duck.
I can't say nothing back
and defend myself.
I hear you.
But that's how this works. John.
Hold on now.
Your job is to defend me.
You should be
bringing in friends
because I got lots of 'em.
Have a look in my Rolodex
contact book or.
or heck. my PDM workers.
They'll tell you
how great of a boss I am.
-Your employees?
-Uh-hmm.
What the fuck. John!
I can't bring in your employees
because you killed most of them.
You buried them
underneath your house.
Hell. even that David Cram kid's
a witness for the prosecution.
Look.
We will get our turn.
Prosecution first. then defense.
and no more letters to Garippo.
please. Okay?
I'm serious.
And if you can't do that.
then I'm gonna quit
right now. Okay?
I can't be fighting two battles
at the same time. John.
I just can't do it.
John?
[ominous music playing]
You know anything
about construction?
It's easy.
John asked me to train you.
He said you were in the Army
or something?
[scoffs] For a couple months.
How long you worked for him?
Uh. six months. Around there.
Cool.
Um. things to know.
He's a cool guy.
but cracks a whip.
He's kind of like
a perfectionist.
Wants things on a certain way.
Don't piss your pants.
It's probably not as bad
as the Army.
Why you think I left?
I bet we have more fun
than you grunts. too.
John's parties are out of sight.
Free booze. whatever you want.
Anything goes.
-Solid.
Yeah. Hey. he can be kooky.
but he's better than any boss
I've ever had.
He told me to think of him
more like a friend than a boss.
Yeah. that's true.
Work hard. play harder.
That's his motto.
Uh. we're here.
[distant indistinct shouting]
[workers chattering]
[distant siren wailing]
A hot dog stand?
John was talking big.
He said his company
made a million a year.
Lots of big contracts.
I was thinking like cranes and.
and rigs. that kind of thing.
Yeah. that's John being John.
He says a lot.
Sometimes it's real.
Other times
just a bunch of hooey.
But. uh. who cares. right?
I mean. five an hour
is a sweet deal.
Grab some paint brushes.
I'll show you the ropes.
Hey.
[indistinct PA announcement]
[knocking]
Thank you for coming.
Yeah. of course.
When did this happen?
Couple days ago.
Drunk maniac
ran her off the road.
Her ribs are broken.
vertebrae. neck.
Um. the nurse
gave her some meds.
so she's in and out of it.
Maryjane: Mom?
Yeah. Sweetie?
Wanna talk to Mr. Kunkle alone.
Okay. Sure.
I'll be right outside.
She still wants to testify
tomorrow.
Please don't let her.
Okay.
Maryjane. how are you?
Been better.
I bet. You're a tough kid.
You believe everything
happens for a reason?
I don't know.
I've been doing this too long
to have an opinion
on that matter.
Told Billy to get a job.
any job.
be a good guy
I could be proud of.
What if I didn't tell him?
What if I just let him
keep stealing?
Would things have
turned out better?
Would he still be here
if I kept my mouth shut.
if I let him be himself?
Life would be different.
Maryjane. look at me.
What you told him
was the right thing.
Okay. he ran into Gacy.
There was nothing
you could have done.
as difficult as that is to hear.
This is Gacy's fault.
end of story.
Please don't take me
off the stand.
You are in no condition.
You said it was important
that I testified.
I. I was speaking
generally to the families.
And we have plenty of excellent
testimony already.
You just need to focus
on getting better. okay?
There's family testifying
for each victim?
Yes.
What about for Billy?
That was just you.
They all have loved ones
telling the court
their lives mattered.
Billy won't get that.
His life mattered.
Maybe not to you but to me.
I need to speak for him.
I can't put you on the stand.
The doctors have you
heavily medicated.
The defense will
use that against you.
say that you're drugged up.
unreliable.
Then I won't take anything.
What about the pain?
It's nothing
compared to losing him.
[objects clatter]
[hammer banging]
Need a hand?
No. No.
What's eating you?
I got yelled at earlier.
John says I'm always late.
You are always late.
I live in Irvin Park.
Cram's being a crybaby because
John yelled at him.
-[all laugh]
-Hey. join the club. pal.
Look. he didn't can you
so that's good.
It's simple. just work hard.
stop being late.
If he thinks
you're doing a good job
then you can make
even more money.
Yeah. how?
Gives me jobs on the side
through a subcontracting
business.
I can make up to seven an hour.
Holy shit. man.
Uh. Godzik.
getting extra work yet?
He asked me to dig trenches
under his house for six an hour.
What are the trenches for?
When it rains.
it floods under the house.
so you gotta dig so it drains.
[vehicle approaching]
[horn honks]
It's John with dinner.
Cram. go. Give him a hand.
You wanna impress him. right?
Yeah.
Extra mile. buddy.
Apologize for being late.
If he likes you.
he'll figure something out.
[door opens]
Why are you always
with that coin. playing with it?
Like a nervous tick
or something?
It's personal.
Oh. come on.
What's the harm?
Everybody's trying
to put me in jail for life.
When everything's
all said and done.
we ain't never gonna
see each other again.
Can you tell me?
-It's my dad's.
-Huh.
He kept old coins.
two dollar bills.
When he died.
I found them in his closet.
scrolled away in an old shoebox.
He a Mexican?
Texan.
I used to work narcotics.
undercover.
Things I saw. wish I hadn't.
Thought I was gonna get
found out.
Chopped up. melted in acid
or something.
When I get home.
it's kind of hard to walk
through the door every day.
Wouldn't talk to my wife.
My kid. just blank. Didn't care.
And then this peso shows up
out of the blue one day.
figured my boy had found it.
got curious.
Thought of yelling at him.
I just slipped it in my pocket.
do something with it later.
Carried it around with me
every day.
Just became a habit.
And when I was done. I got home.
Leave the bullshit in the car.
That's right.
Huh. I like that.
Wish my old man
had a coin like you.
What's it with fathers doing
their teaching with their hands?
That's why we have mothers.
So your dad hit you too?
My father raised me right.
Got you.
[inhales deeply]
Me. I was a great father
to my kids
from wife number one and two.
There was this lady shrink
they made me talk to.
She tried getting in my head
and she asked
if I was relieved when wife one
and two took the kids.
Can you believe that?
I'm thinking to myself.
"What the hell
kind of question is that?
What's she getting at?"
You know?
But now. I say to myself...
And by the way.
it takes a real man to know
his strengths and weaknesses.
right? You agree?
Sure.
So. now I say to myself.
I probably would have been
a lousy dad end of the day.
And lucky for them.
they didn't
stick around to find out.
What about you. you a good dad?
Figures up to my kid to answer.
Can I talk to him?
Abso-fucking-lutely not.
You miss 'em?
-Who?
The kids.
I don't think about 'em.
Well. it's like you said.
a real man knows his strengths
and weaknesses.
Goddamn right about that one.
You know what?
Me and you.
we ain't that different.
-You think so?
-Yeah.
When this is all over.
I'mma build
my house back up in a jiff.
my businesses and everything.
and you and your missus.
your whole family.
you come by for a barbecue.
It's a date.
Good.
[distant horn honking]
Liz.
Mr. Kunkle is looking for you.
You're up soon.
We should head inside.
[exhales deeply]
You all right?
He was taken
from right under me.
I gotta tell a room
full of strangers
how bad of a mother I am.
I keep replaying that night
over and over.
What if I hadn't let him stay.
we were already running late
or if we helped him pay
for the car. he never...
I'm supposed to feel things.
to know when my kids
are in danger.
It happened all the time
when they were little.
when Kerry broke her arm
riding her bike. I knew.
Rob was right there.
I talked to him.
I didn't feel anything.
What kind of a mom
does that make me?
-It's my fault.
-What?
It was your birthday
for heaven's sake.
It should've been me
going to pick up Rob. not you.
not on your birthday.
[somber music playing]
-You blame me?
-No.
I don't.
I don't blame.
Why would you say that?
You think if you were there.
this never would've happened?
And you put that
out of your head.
This has nothing to do
with anything that you did or.
or didn't do.
You have the chance to protect
our son one last time.
Who he is. his story.
When you're up there.
please don't hold anything back.
[sniffles]
Let's not keep
Mr. Kunkle waiting.
-[indistinct chattering]
-[distant siren wailing]
[phone ringing]
[radio static]
David: Thanks.
Thank the boss.
You know how much your bail was?
Four hundred dollars.
David: Shit. Michael: Yeah.
He's gonna take it out of your
check until you're paid up.
Yeah. that makes sense.
What were you doing getting
fucked up in a park anyway?
That's what John's place is for.
His garage.
You know. bring your friends.
come and go.
Doesn't fucking matter.
Didn't know.
Oh. by the way.
John was talking
about your situation.
With rent at your grams' plus
the four bills that you owe him.
take a while to pay him back.
I'll figure it out.
I'm gonna ask him to throw me
some extra work.
Yeah. He just wants to help.
Said something about letting you
live with him for cheaper rent.
-Really?
-Yeah. I mean.
he was feeling it out.
charge like $25 a week.
Use the extra five that
you save to pay him back.
-Are you serious?
-Cross my heart.
Big house. man. You'd be like
prince of the castle.
Unless you don't want it.
Fuck no. I want it.
Okay. Well. yeah.
Talk to him when we get back.
-Yeah. Uh. right on. I will.
-Okay.
[indistinct chattering]
Bill: This has got to stop.
Sam: Defending my client.
No. constantly asking
for a mistrial.
We're not doing this here. Let's
get into my chambers first.
-But he can't keep stalling or
-I can do whatever I want
-using any frivolous procedure.
-under the penumbra of the law.
You. you need to be reprimanded.
And what part of "not here"
do you two not understand?
All right. fine. We're here now.
Thanks. Bill.
Bill: This trial is gonna
drag on forever
if Sam keeps
throwing up roadblocks.
Sorry if my client's
constitutional rights are.
uh. inconvenient for you.
-Yeah.
-Shh. Nip it. you two.
Bill: You know what?
This. this roundabout
is getting me dizzy. Right?
-Just bring him in.
Now. yes.
-Let's just agree to disagree.
What is going on? What is this?
Judge Garippo:
I'm about to tell you.
[clears throat]
Over a week ago. Mr. Gacy
wrote me a letter
with complaints.
I showed it to his attorneys
who assured me
that there was no problem.
Today. I received
another letter from Mr. Gacy.
demanding a response
for the previous letter.
What are you doing?
We talked about this.
It was settled.
-Clearly not settled.
-Stay out of this. please.
Hold your horses. Sam.
Mr. Gacy. is there anything
you wish to say?
Uh-uh.
Nothing with respect
to the letter?
Between you and me.
-That's not how the law works.
-He knows that already.
Judge: Uh. we should discuss
the matters in the letter.
Mr. Gacy is demanding
a mistrial.
He believes that the court
hasn't been fair to him
and that the prosecution
is playing
outside the bounds of the law.
Do we have to entertain
this farce?
[laughs]
Your behavior is what I'd expect
from a bisexual prosecutor.
[scoffs] Excuse me?
Don't go acting like you don't
know what I'm talking about.
No. please elaborate.
Okay.
Cruising around
in your leather with the.
the jacket and the pants
on your little motorbike.
You got something
against Harleys?
You're bisexual in nature.
I've seen you at the bars at.
uh. Clark Street.
Does that ring a bell?
I know what you are.
Bill: Oh. is that right?
So you admit to frequenting
those types of establishments?
I mean. if you saw me there.
No. no. see.
you're twisting my meanings.
No. you are pissing your pants
scared and you should be.
[laughs]
I ain't scared of no fairy.
Now. fairy. bisexual.
you call me whatever you want.
I'm gonna bury you.
Hey. hey. Sit down.
You can't talk to him like that.
He has every right to feel
the way he feels. Bill: Yeah.
No. you've been playing dirty
and it's borderline
inappropriate.
Okay. that's enough.
The second point to address
is Mr. Gacy saying
that he no longer has faith
in his attorneys.
He vehemently opposes
the insanity defense.
Wow. This is wild.
Even your own client thinks
that your strategy is bullshit.
Judge Garippo: Mr. Gacy.
why do you believe that your
attorneys aren't up to the task?
Because they're not letting me
be in control.
I tell 'em what to do.
but they just ignore me.
It's not right.
Sam. care to respond?
I just think this proves
the insanity defense.
Mr. Gacy's clearly not of sound
mind and unfit to stand trial.
This reeks
of a coordinated effort
between these two. all right?
Mr. Gacy was examined
by psychiatrists.
a determination was made
that he was fit for trial
according to the Illinois
State Fitness Standard.
I concur.
The case will proceed.
Mr. Amirante. at this time
do you wish to withdraw
as the defendant's attorney?
I'll leave that determination
in the hands of the defendant.
Well. Mr. Gacy?
If I change attorneys.
then what happens next?
I can tell you that it will
have no bearing on the trial.
Full steam.
We can proceed.
Okay. Trial will resume
as scheduled.
Elizabeth: We are establishing
the Robert Piest Foundation
to ensure that no other parent
should ever have to go through
what we have.
Two days ago.
we endured another nightmare.
I sat on the stand
recounting the last hours
of our Robbie's life.
Robbie had so much promise
and so much more to give.
but now we won't ever know
his full potential.
[camera shutter clicks]
We never imagined
this could happen to us.
but it did. and it could
happen to any of you.
We have been sickened
by the way these boys
have been talked about
in the news.
They're all victims.
innoc... innocent lives.
innocent lives stolen from us.
And this could have
been prevented
if Chicago police and the
Iowa Parole Board did their job.
Their failure to monitor
John Gacy
is the reason this happened.
The system
failed these families.
We are filing
an $85 million-dollar lawsuit
against the entities
that failed our sons.
Which agencies specifically
will be named in the lawsuit?
That information will be public
once it's filed.
Do you think
this is an appropriate action?
Is it appropriate
that the authorities
ignored the families?
Do you find solace in the fact
that Gacy was caught
and is currently standing trial?
My son is gone.
There's nothing to take
solace in.
Hey. Bill.
Oh. Jesus Christ.
Cavanaugh
poisoned the jury pool.
Yeah. Your playbook's
getting tired. Sam. [sighs]
We objected and you
bulldozed right through 'em.
Your objection was late.
It was not late. okay?
It was not late. you ignored me.
-No.
Now don't rewrite history.
you little meatball.
I asked.
"If a person is found not guilty"
by reason of insanity.
and then remanded
to a mental institution?
Is it possible to guarantee
that they will stay there
for the rest of their life?"
To which Cavanaugh says...
This is when I objected.
-No. Bullshit. Bullshit. Sam!
-Yes. This is when I objected.
Cavanaugh said he thought
that was absolutely impossible.
He then started to explain why.
-It was before that.
-That is when you objected.
-No. no. no.
It was before that.
-You know what?
Agree to disagree. Okay?
You're asleep at the wheel. Sam.
You fucking wish I was
asleep at the wheel.
It is a misleading question.
Gacy will absolutely
spend the rest of his life
in a mental institution.
The doctor
didn't seem to think so.
Bill. please.
There is not
a fucking way in hell
that any facility will release
that guy in a few months.
Medical or prison.
he will die behind bars
and you know it.
You know what? If you're
so angry about it. Sam.
why don't you
ask for a mistrial?
Oh. wait. You did. Again.
There are certain people
who belong in mental facilities.
And then there is pure evil.
Do you wanna ask those families
to give him a second chance?
That one juror you're
looking for doesn't exist.
Not after today.
And not after I put
David Cram on the stand
and he shows everybody
what a conniving.
manipulative son of a bitch
Gacy is.
[distant siren wailing]
[bags thud]
[door bell rings]
John: [as Pew-Pew]
Your tail's waggy. Mr. Tinkle.
Why so gleeful?
[as Mr. Tinkle] We made
a new friend. Pew-Pew.
[as Pew-Pew] We did? Where?
Hiya. friend.
[as Mr. Tinkle]
His name's David Cram.
But you could call him Cram.
[as Pew-Pew] Ooh.
I like the sound of that.
I like to cram things. too.
[as Mr. Tinkle] Me. too.
That's why my tail's so waggy.
[laughs as both
Mr. Tinkle and Pew-Pew]
[as Mr. Tinkle] He's gonna
be our new room buddy!
[as Pew-Pew] Yay!
I love room buddies.
Does he know about
our special buddy games?
[as Mr. Tinkle] No. but he will.
And guess what?
[as Pew-Pew] What? What?
[as Mr. Tinkle]
He was in the Army.
[as Pew-Pew] [gasps]
Oh. I love soldiers.
They look so manly
in all that camouflage.
And it makes
their butts look cute.
[laughs as both]
[as Mr. Tinkle]
You're gonna be our best friend
and best friends cuddle.
[as Pew-Pew] Aw!
[as Mr. Tinkle] Oh!
[as Mr. Tinkle] Morning cuddles.
afternoon cuddles.
and nighttime cuddles. Mmm. mmm.
[as Pew-Pew] Oh. Nighttime
cuddles are my favorite.
[as Mr. Tinkle] Me. too.
They're so yummy
and warm and strong.
Oh. where's the time gone?
That's the end of our show.
Pew-Pew.
[as Pew-Pew] Aww. but
we were having so much fun.
[as Mr. Tinkle]
Well. till next time.
[as Pew-Pew] Wait.
are you forgetting something.
Mr. Tinkle?
[as Mr. Tinkle] Oh. yeah.
Now for the grand finally.
[as Pew-Pew] Oh. no!
You're peeing in my face again.
Mr. Tinkle.
[as Mr. Tinkle] But don't you
just love getting peed on?
[as Pew-Pew] You know I do.
you naughty. naughty boy.
[applauds]
Let's talk about those
highlighted responses.
I can't tell you what to say
or not to say on the stand.
But I need you to be honest.
transparent.
However. I would
suggest that you refrain
from using terms
like "weird" or "bizarre."
Well. but I'm not gonna lie.
I'm not asking you to.
But would you say...
that he was intentional about
recruiting you to live with him
and everything
that happened after that?
Yeah.
Ever questioned
why he was being so nice?
Um. a bit. but. uh...
But what?
John treated me
like a real person.
He was kind.
Exactly my point.
Gacy needs to come off
as normal as possible.
But he wasn't normal.
In terms of his mental state.
I need the jury to understand
that he is calculating.
He manipulated you.
You're being nice
all of a sudden.
You were bustin'
my balls last time.
I'm sorry.
Are your feelings hurt?
You know what else hurts?
Being strangled and tortured.
[somber music playing]
It doesn't even feel real.
It's like a dream.
It could've been me
buried in there.
That's right.
That's exactly right.
This is not a dream.
And you have an obligation.
But it kinda feels like
you're getting cold feet.
Where's grandma?
Taking a nap.
Does she know what you've
gotten yourself twisted up in?
No. she doesn't
follow the news much.
Hmm.
We could change that
if you want.
[vehicle approaching]
[bell ringing]
[shutters closing]
All right. See you later.
Det. Tovar: No. you won't.
Albrecht's taking over.
What?
Well. that's too bad.
I mean. even though
Albrecht is easier on the eyes.
it's been nice
chattin' with you.
Um. well. good luck
with everything. Detective.
John.
I need you to tell me
if there are more out there.
Other victims.
Oh. Are we doin' this again?
The prosecution's rested.
all their cards
are on the table.
Thirty-three bodies.
but I don't think that's it.
I think there's more.
You can't leave that peso
in the ashtray. can you?
You're gonna lose this case.
Come on.
Do something right.
make it right.
For the families.
if no one else.
I don't owe them anything.
And this isn't for them.
It's for you.
And I don't owe you
a goddamn thing either.
All I could think
about is my kid.
Not much younger
than those boys you killed.
I'd kill myself to know.
How about 45?
Huh? Yeah.
Forty-five
sounds like a good number.
Is it? Is it 45?
Up to you to find out.
[eerie music playing]
[grunts] Gentlemen.
Hey. Hey.
I'll see you at your execution.
asshole.
[soft music playing]
[soft dramatic music playing]